BOUNTIES.md, before:

# InterWasm bounties

Submit a PR to this repository, adding your information to one of the bounties tables below. In the PR be sure to explain what you did and provide links to your documentation work.

InterWasm DAO members then will review your work and determine compensation, and if successful, merge your PR. Payout will happen in a timely manner after approval.

_In addition, if you go above and beyond the call of duty, the reviewers may decide to offer a bonus._

## Documentation Bounties

_5000 Juno_ has been set aside to fund documentation efforts for [CosmWasm documentation](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/docs/1.0/).

See the [InterWasm/docs repository](https://github.com/InterWasm/docs) and the open [Documentation v1.0](https://github.com/InterWasm/DAO/issues/35) issue for ideas on how and where to contribute.

### General Documentation Work

For general documentation contributions. Amount to be determined by reviewers.

| GitHub Username | Juno Address | Date | Description of work |
| :-------------- | :----------- | ---- | :------------------ |
|                 |              |      |                     |

- Note: Only major work will be eligible for documentation bounties, fixing a few a typos doesn't count.

### Specific Documentation Requests

These bounties are for specific tasks and have a specified prize associated. Reviewers may add a bonus for exceptional quality.

| Task                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                  | Amount   | Juno Address |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------- | :----------- |
| Document [cw-multi-test](https://crates.io/crates/cw-multi-test) | Cover basic usage for the `cw-multi-test` library. Contribute this to the github repository as well as the main CosmWasm documentation repo. | 100 Juno |              |
| Document CosmWasm submessages and replies                        | Provide basic documentation for CosmWasm Submessages and replies to the main CosmWasm documentation repo.                                    | 100 Juno |              |

## Frontend Bounties

Bounties related to building decentralized frontend applications for CosmWasm smart contracts.

| Task                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 | Reward   | PR  | Claimed by |
| :------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------- | --- | :--------- |
| Document deploying a Next.js application on Akash | Document how to deploy a Next.js application on Akash network with HTTPS setup for a custom domain. please include a link to an open source GitHub repo with this documentation in your PR. | 100 JUNO |     |            |

## Back-end, tooling and Smart Contract Bounties

Bounties related to building back-end, utility tooling and smart contracts for CosmWasm use cases.

| Task                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 | Reward   | PR  | Claimed by |
| :------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------- | --- | :--------- |
| Add CW721 support to Keplr | This may need discussion with the Keplr team - implement support for CW721 NFTs within Keplr wallet. Please include a link to the PR on Keplr. | 500 JUNO |     |            |

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review

BOUNTIES.md, after:

# InterWasm bounties

Submit a PR to this repository, adding your information to one of the bounties tables below. In the PR be sure to explain what you did and provide links to your documentation work.

InterWasm DAO members then will review your work and determine compensation, and if successful, merge your PR. Payout will happen in a timely manner after approval.

_In addition, if you go above and beyond the call of duty, the reviewers may decide to offer a bonus._

## Documentation Bounties

_5000 Juno_ has been set aside to fund documentation efforts for [CosmWasm documentation](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/docs/1.0/).

See the [InterWasm/docs repository](https://github.com/InterWasm/docs) and the open [Documentation v1.0](https://github.com/InterWasm/DAO/issues/35) issue for ideas on how and where to contribute.

### General Documentation Work

For general documentation contributions. Amount to be determined by reviewers.

| GitHub Username | Juno Address | Date | Description of work |
| :-------------- | :----------- | ---- | :------------------ |
|                 |              |      |                     |

- Note: Only major work will be eligible for documentation bounties, fixing a few a typos doesn't count.

### Specific Documentation Requests

These bounties are for specific tasks and have a specified prize associated. Reviewers may add a bonus for exceptional quality.

| Task                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                  | Amount   | Juno Address |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------- | :----------- |
| Document [cw-multi-test](https://crates.io/crates/cw-multi-test) | Cover basic usage for the `cw-multi-test` library. Contribute this to the github repository as well as the main CosmWasm documentation repo. | 100 Juno |              |
| Document CosmWasm submessages and replies                        | Provide basic documentation for CosmWasm Submessages and replies to the main CosmWasm documentation repo.                                    | 100 Juno |              |

## Frontend Bounties

Bounties related to building decentralized frontend applications for CosmWasm smart contracts.

| Task                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 | Reward   | PR  | Claimed by |
| :------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------- | --- | :--------- |
| Document deploying a Next.js application on Akash | Document how to deploy a Next.js application on Akash network with HTTPS setup for a custom domain. please include a link to an open source GitHub repo with this documentation in your PR. | 100 JUNO |     |            |

## Wallets

These bounties relate to adding better CosmWasm support as well as code examples for wallets.

| Task                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 | Reward   | PR  | Claimed by |
| :------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------- | --- | :--------- |
| Add CW721 support to Keplr | This may need discussion with the Keplr team - implement support for CW721 NFTs within Keplr wallet. Please include a link to the PR on Keplr. | 500 JUNO |     |            |
