IWPs/iwp-5.md, before:

---
iwp: iwp-5
title: SecurityDAO
description: incentivized CosmWasm audits, security tooling and education for Cosmos / IBC
authors: Barton Rhodes (@bmorphism), Paul Wagner (@devcubed)
status: Review
type: Grant
created: 2022-01-26
---
## Summary
SecurityDAO was formed on December 17th, 2021 at the RadicalXChange Unconference in Denver, Colorado. 🏔

We are a group of developers, security engineers, and fellow travelers united by:

- our critical examination of the distributed systems for "rough consensus"
- our dismay at the inconsistent application of well-established security practices in "web3"
- our knowledge / skills and feeling compelled to make a difference

Most of all, we do not wish to see the transformative aims of the radical movements that place their trust into on-chain governance and value exchange be thwarted because security came as an afterthought.

## Motivation
The focal point for the initial members in our DAO is the choice of Cosmos ecosystem / IBC - sovereign chains with interoperable smart contracts as the backbone for the [Pluriverse](https://pluriverse.world/), one that can _actually_ scale with growing adoption. In it, the additional memory safety guarantees that come with Rust / `CosmWasm` and the Actor model for contract interactions eliminate entire classes of bugs plaguing other chains and [rekt.news leaderboard](https://rekt.news/leaderboard/); still, being able to compile your CosmWasm smart contract in itself is not a guarantee that the logic it implements is correct. Most projects built with CosmWasm do still require review, the space of threats around IBC is still being explored and explicit incentives for operating and securing relayer infrastructure for IBC are yet to be defined. It is still early days and there is no shortage of security work to be done, however, there are relatively few contributors who are qualified, available, or brave enough to do it.

The immediate priority for the DAO will be to improve the security posture of the projects headed for Junø mainnet, and InterWasm funding will help SecurityDAO incentivize contributors, begin development of open-source Cosmos ecosystem security tooling, as well as cover any expenses associated with carrying out of the initial audits and other administrative costs.

Security innovation is a key differentiator for Tendermint-based chains and the goal for SecurityDAO is to be the first contributor-governed alternative to the traditionally structured audit shops operating in the ecosystem.

## Specification

### Upcoming audits

Initial set of targets:

- [DAO DAO](https://daodao.zone)
- [WasmSwap](https://github.com/Wasmswap)
- [cw-vest](https://github.com/ben2x4/cw-vest)

### CosmWasm fuzzer
Fuzz-testing smart contracts allows for discovery of issues outside of the test cases thought up and implemented by the developer. In practice, it will mean fulfilling several sub-bounties that implement AFL fuzzing for smart contract intercations for `CosmWasm` specifically.

https://github.com/rust-fuzz/afl.rs

The characteristics of different contracts as far as their time to run fuzz tests, termination, and failure modes of the testing procedure. It is our goal to make available the fuzz testing tooling that will allow CosmWasm developers discover issues, e.g. missing integrity checks, through encountering of pseudorandom inputs outside of the ordinary tests.

### Cross-chain audit protocol with skin in the game
In many ways, the predominant smart contract audit today is the same old SaaS / web2 model we've seen before.
When it comes to the terms of engagement, final deliverable format, or how the parties think about responsibility stemming from audit services, there is no fundamental difference between a canonical vendor like Trail of Bits auditing [a k8s component](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/blob/main/security/SECURITY_AUDIT.pdf) or a [self-sovereign identity protocol](https://github.com/mykeylab/keyid-eth-contracts/blob/master/reports/Trail%20of%20Bits%20Verification%20Report%20for%20MYKEY(2020-09-14).pdf).

A typical smart contract auditor today is paid per engagement at a rate significantly less than the value of the targets being audited. The liability for the audit is limited and in case of their client being hacked, the damage to the auditor is predominantly reputational.

At SecurityDAO, we are fundamentally uninspired by the way web3 / DeFi audits are done today. We build what we build because we share in the values of the protocols, DAOs, L-1s, and individuals that we help, we want to help bring the outcomes in the world that they seek (and yes, sometimes our prospects' values won't align with ours and we will vote to say "no"). If our contributors make mistakes, we will hurt also.

This shared ownership over the outcomes, good or bad, is the fundamental principle of web3 and needs to be emulated, especially wherever the stakes are high. To that end, we want to build a protocol for on-chain audits with automated incentives to get it right! Our goal for the protocol is to allow any "pod" of security frens anywhere to have a structured way of joining forces for an audit. The scope of our ambition is to engineer incentives to capture the entire addressable market for audits and make the corporate transactional audits a relic from 2021.

In order to own the outcomes of audits, the auditor needs to suffer a negative outcome in case of the target being hacked. This will incentivize the contributors to pay attention  and execute the audit. If the auditor is auditing an L-1 Tendermint chain with `$TOKEN`, and the chain / DAO or AMM on it gets hacked, `$TOKEN` is likely to go down in value or become worthless, so if the auditor gets only one-time `$TOKEN` payment for the audit, there is already shared ownership outcomes in that.

However, that also disincentivizes disclosing vulns to the public the moment they are discovered by the auditor. In reality, what is proposed here is a set of CosmWasm smart contracts that:
- can determine whether an audit target does get hacked and automatically transfers `$TOKEN` penalty from an account used by the DAO
- the goal of these contracts and the broader protocol is to define the mechanics of the penalties, ensure that there is always `$TOKEN` available for the penalty_in code_, i.e. there is no way for us to withdraw money from that account
- make it so that SecurityDAO benefits from having the token not be withdrawn, e.g. by it being staked to something, enabling LP, or another DeFi instrument -- basically a source of continuous / maximum rewards that would vanish (along with the principal) if the DAO messes up
- unlock the principal after a time passes to make the original audit irrelevant to be transferred freely

CosmWasm operating across chains and even ecosystems (Evmos, Gravity Bridge) offers unique flexibility in developing a protocol that could allow for automated settlement to take place, even if the original chain is pwned / forked, in a variety of tokens as long as the chain is in IBC / using AMMs to ensure the token is liquid.

### Other activities and tooling
In the course of carrying out the CosmWasm work, we expect to develop or improve the following.

- IBC labnets - configuration-driven simulations of cross-chain scenarios enncountered by CosmWasm code working over public permissionless Tendermint chains in IBC
- responsible disclosure - work out solutions and processes by which to incentivize discovery and disclosure of issues discovered at all layers of proof-of-stake chains


### Art and Education
In order to allow for continuous fundraising and the recording of impactful security events in Cosmos ecosystem and broader web3 security history, the DAO will begin minting ([when it becomes available](https://mirror.xyz/stargazezone.eth/Ozp8kRUsnGyN46lV3-5I57tB_LxRtlyTN176yL_T0f8)) a weekly `SG-721` NFTs that point at specific transactions of significance from any of the L-1 chains in Cosmos or otherwise, protocols, DAOs being audited, and any adjacent artifacts. In cases where the significant event is a fork or other artifacts that are no longer on-chain for the current height, the NFT will point to an index / sketch of the incident in `Arweave`.

### Governance

- private `junod` chain + gov contract w/ DAO DAO UI for tactical / sensitive SecurityDAO decisions
- public liquid DAO to for security education - meetups, conferences, blogposts, CTFs, and engagement with the community through the DAO's [Pluriverse chat space](https://invasive.dao.surgery)

## Grant

Amount: `9999 $JUNO`

Wallet: `juno1j37vjp9pcsyvk2ssklx3l7jhqwvfmm7p3frfd6`

Commit message:

More audit targets, indexing for CosmWasm, typos

IWPs/iwp-5.md, after:

---
iwp: iwp-5
title: SecurityDAO
description: incentivized CosmWasm audits, security tooling and education for Cosmos / IBC
authors: Barton Rhodes (@bmorphism), Paul Wagner (@devcubed)
status: Review
type: Grant
created: 2022-01-26
---
## Summary
SecurityDAO was formed on December 17th, 2021 at the RadicalXChange Unconference in Denver, Colorado. 🏔

We are a group of developers, security engineers, and fellow travelers united by:

- our critical examination of the distributed systems for "rough consensus"
- our dismay at the inconsistent application of well-established security practices in "web3"
- our knowledge / skills and feeling compelled to make a difference

Most of all, we do not wish to see the transformative aims of the radical movements that place their trust into on-chain governance and value exchange be thwarted because security came as an afterthought.

## Motivation
The focal point for the initial members in our DAO is the choice of Cosmos ecosystem / IBC - sovereign chains with interoperable smart contracts as the backbone for the [Pluriverse](https://pluriverse.world/), one that can _actually_ scale with growing adoption. In it, the additional memory safety guarantees that come with Rust / `CosmWasm` and the Actor model for contract interactions eliminate entire classes of bugs plaguing other chains and [rekt.news leaderboard](https://rekt.news/leaderboard/); still, being able to compile your CosmWasm smart contract in itself is not a guarantee that the logic it implements is correct. Most projects built with CosmWasm do still require review, the space of threats around IBC is still being explored and explicit incentives for operating and securing relayer infrastructure for IBC are yet to be defined. It is still early days and there is no shortage of security work to be done, however, there are relatively few contributors who are qualified, available, or brave enough to do it.

The immediate priority for the DAO will be to improve the security posture of the projects headed for Junø mainnet, and InterWasm funding will help SecurityDAO incentivize contributors, begin development of open-source Cosmos ecosystem security tooling, as well as cover any expenses associated with carrying out of the initial audits and other administrative costs.

Security innovation is a key differentiator for Tendermint-based chains and the goal for SecurityDAO is to be the first contributor-governed alternative to the traditionally structured audit shops operating in the ecosystem.

## Specification

### Upcoming audits

Set of targets for initial audit:

- [DAO DAO](https://daodao.zone)
- [WasmSwap](https://github.com/Wasmswap)
- [cw-vest](https://github.com/ben2x4/cw-vest)
- [cw-nfts](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-nfts)
- [cw-contracts](https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts)

### CosmWasm fuzzer
Fuzz-testing smart contracts allows for discovery of issues outside of the test cases thought up and implemented by the developer. In practice, it will mean fulfilling several sub-bounties that implement AFL fuzzing for smart contract intercations for `CosmWasm` specifically.

https://github.com/rust-fuzz/afl.rs

The characteristics of different contracts as far as their time to run fuzz tests, termination, and failure modes of the testing procedure. It is our goal to make available the fuzz testing tooling that will allow CosmWasm developers discover issues, e.g. missing integrity checks, through encountering of pseudorandom inputs outside of the ordinary tests.

### Cross-chain audit protocol with skin in the game
In many ways, the predominant smart contract audit today is the same old SaaS / web2 model we've seen before.
When it comes to the terms of engagement, final deliverable format, or how the parties think about responsibility stemming from audit services, there is no fundamental difference between a canonical vendor like Trail of Bits auditing [a k8s component](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/blob/main/security/SECURITY_AUDIT.pdf) or a [self-sovereign identity protocol](https://github.com/mykeylab/keyid-eth-contracts/blob/master/reports/Trail%20of%20Bits%20Verification%20Report%20for%20MYKEY(2020-09-14).pdf).

A typical smart contract auditor today is paid per engagement at a rate significantly less than the value of the targets being audited. The liability for the audit is limited and in case of their client being hacked, the damage to the auditor is predominantly reputational.

At SecurityDAO, we are fundamentally uninspired by the way web3 / DeFi audits are done today. We build what we build because we share in the values of the protocols, DAOs, L-1s, and individuals that we help, we want our work to aid in bringing their desired outcomes into the world safely (and yes, sometimes our prospects' values won't align with ours and we will vote to say "no"). If our contributors make mistakes, it needs to be reflected in our bottom line.

This shared ownership over the outcomes, good or bad, is the fundamental principle of web3 and needs to be emulated, especially wherever the stakes are high. To that end, we want to build a protocol for on-chain audits with automated incentives to get it right! Our goal for the protocol is to allow any "pod" of security frens anywhere to have a structured way of joining forces for an audit. The scope of our ambition is to engineer incentives to capture the entire addressable market for audits and make the corporate transactional audits a relic from 2021.

In order to own up to the outcomes of audits, the auditor needs to suffer a negative outcome in case of the target being hacked. This will incentivize the contributors to pay attention and execute well on the audit. If the auditor is auditing an L-1 Tendermint chain with `$TOKEN`, and the chain / DAO or AMM on it gets hacked, `$TOKEN` is likely to go down in value or become worthless, so if the auditor gets only one-time `$TOKEN` payment for the audit, there are shared ownership outcomes in that already.

However, this also disincentivizes disclosing vulns to the public the moment they are discovered by the auditor. In reality, what is proposed here is a set of CosmWasm smart contracts that accomplish the following:
- can determine whether an audit target does get hacked and automatically transfer `$TOKEN` penalty from a wallet used by the DAO
- the goal of these contracts and the broader protocol is to define the mechanics of the penalties, ensure that there is always `$TOKEN` available for the penalty enforced _with code_, i.e. there is no way for the auditor to transfer token out of that wallet before the period of reasonable relevance of the audit expires
- SecurityDAO would still benefit from the token not being withdrawn, e.g. by it being staked, enabling LPs, or another incentivized DeFi instrument -- as a source of continuous / maximum rewards it would vanish (along with the principal) if the DAO messes up on an audit
- the principal in the yielding wallet will be unlocked for transfer after the period throughout which the audit remains reasonable


CosmWasm operating across chains and even ecosystems (Evmos, Gravity Bridge) offers unique flexibility in developing a protocol that could allow for automated settlement to take place, even if the original chain is pwned / forked, in a variety of tokens as long as the chain is in IBC / using AMMs to ensure the token is liquid.

### Other activities and tooling
In the course of carrying out the CosmWasm work, we expect to develop or improve the following.

- IBC labnets - configuration-driven simulations of cross-chain scenarios enncountered by CosmWasm code working over public permissionless Tendermint chains in IBC
- responsible disclosure - work out solutions and processes by which to incentivize discovery and disclosure of issues discovered at all layers of proof-of-stake chains
- Tendermint chains / IBC indexing for large scale analytics to understand the totality of chain state, incl. for CosmWasm execution - Cosmos SDK chains with CosmWasm could benefit from Dune.xyz-type service


### Art and Education
In order to allow for continuous fundraising and the recording of impactful security events in Cosmos ecosystem and broader web3 security history, the DAO will begin minting ([when it becomes available](https://mirror.xyz/stargazezone.eth/Ozp8kRUsnGyN46lV3-5I57tB_LxRtlyTN176yL_T0f8)) a weekly `SG-721` NFTs that point at specific transactions of significance from any of the L-1 chains in Cosmos or otherwise, protocols, DAOs being audited, and any adjacent artifacts. In cases where the significant event is a fork or other artifacts that are no longer on-chain for the current height, the NFT will point to an index / sketch of the incident in `Arweave`.

### Governance

- private `junod` chain + gov contract w/ DAO DAO UI for tactical / sensitive SecurityDAO decisions
- public liquid DAO to for security education - meetups, conferences, blogposts, CTFs, and engagement with the community through the DAO's [Pluriverse chat space](https://invasive.dao.surgery)

## Grant

Amount: `9999 $JUNO`

Wallet: `juno1j37vjp9pcsyvk2ssklx3l7jhqwvfmm7p3frfd6`
